# Integration
----

Haltdos solutions support out-of-the-box integration with many networking and security products. As an API first solution, it has built-in APIs for integration with custom software as well as support for Webhooks for invoking 3rd party tools and solutions upon events generated by Haltdos solution.  
Some of the tools that can be integrated are described below:

- #### NTP Integration
For synchronizing time in Haltdos instance with data center’s NTP server (as applicable)

- #### DNS Integration
For DNS resolution in Haltdos instance with data center’s local DNS server (as applicable)

- #### SNMP Integration
For sending SNMP notifications regarding Haltdos instance to customer’s monitoring service (as applicable).

- #### Email Integration
Haltdos solution supports sending alerts and notifications to users via email. SMTP settings can easily be configured using GUI to integrate with customer’s Email service provider.

- #### SMS/API Gateway Integration
Haltdos solution can also send alerts and notification to users via SMS Gateway or integrate with customer’s ticketing system. To enable this capability, SMS Gateway or Ticketing System’s API endpoint must be configured using GUI.

- #### Syslog Integration
Haltdos solution can be configured to sync the alerts and notifications to customer's syslog server to integrate with customer’s monitoring and analytics tools.

- #### Backup Integration
Backup is a standard for storing copy logs and configuration in case of system configuration recovery and backlog analysis for security. Haltdos provides the flexibility of taking periodic backup of logs and configuration and syncing it to the specified server via FTP.

- #### Active Directory / SAML Integration
Haltdos solution can seamlessly integrate with the customer’s Active Directory for user management and authentication.

- #### SIEM Integration
Haltdos solution can easily be integrated with any SIEM solution. All logs in Haltdos solution are written as JSON logs via Syslog in CEF format. No parser would need to be created for parsing Haltdos logs. Haltdos team can coordinate with customer’s SIEM vendor to onboard Haltdos solution into SIEM.

- #### AV Scanning / Sandboxing Integration
Haltdos can easily integrate with customer’s Anti-Virus or Sandboxing solution via ICAP for inspecting files for malicious content.

- #### AAA Integration
AAA stands for Authentication, Authorization and Accountability. It is responsible for authenticating the user to perform some action on the server. There are two types of authentication server supported:

- **Radius**: A RADIUS Server is a background process that runs on a UNIX or Windows server. It lets youmaintain user profiles in a central database. Hence, if you have a RADIUS Server, you have control overwho can connect with your network.

- **Tacacs**: TACACS (Terminal Access Controller Access Control System) is an older authenticationprotocol common to UNIX networks that allows a remote access server to forward a user's logonpassword to an authentication server to determine whether access can be allowed to a given system.