# KB-7002

### How to add SSL Certificates?

SSL certificates are what enable websites to use HTTPS, which is more secure than HTTP. An SSL certificate is a data file hosted in a website's origin server. SSL certificates make SSL/TLS encryption possible, and they contain the website's public key and the website's identity, along with related information. Devices attempting to communicate with the origin server.It allows us to Select or Upload an SSL Certificate for SSL Offloading in case of encrypted traffic.

To add the SSL Certificate for a listener

### Solution

1. Firstly, login to WAF
2. Select SSL Certificates from sidebar menu
3. Configure the certificate, customer can either upload the existing SSL certificate or create a new certificate by using the feature of Let's Encrypt.


4. To Create New Certificate

There are Three Steps to generate a certificate
1. Order Certificate : Select the listener/zone for which you need to order the certificate.
2. Verify Challenge : Verify the challenge for generating the certificate . Customer need select the appropriate challenge option i.e. HTTP and DNS challenge.
3. Upload Certificate : Customer has to follow steps such as providing Certificate - Name, Domain and Keys - Public and Private.

Note: After configuring SSL Certificate customer also have to enable it and Select the Certificate specify listener.

5. Go to Apps > WAF > Listener > Click on Listener Name > SSL Setting and enable the SSL offloading.

6. Select SSL certificate from the drop- down menu and click on save changes.
