---
sidebar_position: 69
---

# KB: 1069

#### **How to capture packet and trace them through tcp dump utility?**

The tcpdump utility is a powerful command-line tool for capturing and analyzing network traffic. It allows you to capture packets that pass through a network interface and provides detailed information about the network activity

Below is the example of command to run the tcp dump utility-

**Command: -** 

    `tcpdump -i <interface> port <port> -w <filename>.pcap`

Below are the arguments that can be used based on the requirement-

**Arguments: -**

   1. **`-i <interface>`:** Specifies the network interface to listen on.

   2. **`host <hostname>`**: Captures packets to or from a specific IP.

   3. **`port <port>`**: Captures packets to or from a specific port.

   4. **`-w <file>`**: Writes the captured packets to a file instead of
    displaying them on the screen.

   5. **`-A`**: Displays the packet contents in ASCII, which is useful for
    inspecting HTTP requests or other text-based protocols

   6. **`-X`**: Displays the packet contents in both hex and ASCII.

   7. **`-c`**: Specify the number of packets to capture before stopping

   8. **`-r <filename>`**: Read and analyze packets from a previously saved capture file

   9. **`src host <host>`**: Capture packets originating from a specific host

   10. **`dst host <host>`**: Capture packets that are destined for a specific host

To analyze the decrypted content, you can use a tool like Wireshark. To
decrypt encrypted traffic captured in a dump file using Wireshark, you
need specific keys or passwords depending on the encryption protocol
used (e.g., SSL/TLS). Below are the reference documents decrypting SSL/TLS
traffic in Wireshark.

Reference 1: [How to decrypt SSL/TLS traffic using Wireshark and private keys?](/kb/waf/kb-1070)

Reference 2: [How to decrypt SSL/TLS using Wireshark and SSLKEYLOGFILE environment variable on Firefox or Google Chrome using Wireshark?](/kb/waf/kb-1071) 